---
relevant-topics:
- permutations
- combinations
---

There are 10 persian cats, 14 sphynx cats, and 6 british shorthair cats at a cat show. 7 cats are selected to go through to the final. 

a.  How many selections of 7 different cats can be made if there must be at least 1 persian cat, at least 2 sphynx cats, and at least 3 british shorthahir cats?

2 persian cats, 2 sphynx cats, and 3 british shorthair cats go through to the final. They are placed in a line.

b.  How many different arrangements of these 7 cats are there if the persian cats stand together and the sphynx cats stand together?

c.  How many different arrangements of these 7 cats are there if no british shorthair cat is next to another british shorthair cat?

## Solution

It is important to note that the cats are distinct. Even if two cats are of the same type, say both are persian cats, they are not the same cat and so, not duplicates of each other.  

### Part a

There are three possible cases that satisfy the given condition:

-   2 persian cats, 2 sphynx cats, and 3 british shorthair cats are chosen, which has $\binom{10}{2} \binom{14}{2} \binom{6}{3} = 81900$ possible selections.

-   1 persian cat, 3 sphynx cats, and 3 british shorthair cats are chosen, which has $\binom{10}{1} \binom{14}{3} \binom{6}{3} = 72800$ possible selections.

-   1 persian cat, 2 sphynx cats, and 4 british shorthair cats are chosen, which has $\binom{10}{1} \binom{14}{2} \binom{6}{4} = 13650$ possible selections.

Summing the total number of possible selections for each case gives a total of $81900 + 72800 + 13650 = 168350$ possible selections. 

### Part b

The sphynx cats must be together as one group and the persian cats as their own group. There are $5!$ possible ways to arrange the 3 british shorthair cats, the sphynx-cat group, and the persian-cat group. Within the sphynx-cat group, there are $2!$ ways to arrange the sphynx cats within the group. The same can be said about the persian-cat group. Therefore, the total number of possible different arrangements is $5! \cdot 2! \cdot 2! = 480$.

+:-:+:--:+:-:+:--:+:-:+
| B | PG | B | SG | B |
+---+----+---+----+---+

: B represents a british shorthair cat, PG the group of persian cats, and SG the group of sphynx cats.


## Part c

There must be at least one persian or sphynx cat between any british shorthair cat. It may be helpful to visualise a fixed pattern of persian and sphynx cats, and there is a slot for a british shorthair cat on either side of each cat. This gives 5 possible positions for the 3 british shorthair cats.

+:-:+:-:+:-:+:-:+:-:+:-:+:-:+:-:+:-:+
|   | P |   | P |   | S |   | S |   | 
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+

: P represents a persian cat, S a sphynx cat, and the empty table cells where a british shorthair cat can be placed.

There are $\frac{5!}{(5-3)!} = 60$ ways to arrange the 3 british shorthair cats into the 5 available positions. Additionally, there are $4! = 24$ ways to arrange the persian and sphynx cats. Therefore, the total number of arrangements is $60 \cdot 24 = 1440$.
